IMT-GIS-Tools
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

## Problem

All-hazard incident management teams (AHIMTs) are often tasked with
responding to and managing incidents of wildly varying scope and
complexity. The role of AHIMTs continues to evolve into a more data
centric role due to legal issues, incident complexity, and
interoperability requirements. These challenges necessitate a flexible
framework for managing geospatial data during incidents. Unlike the
wildland firefighting community, no standards currently exist specific
to geospatial data management for AHIMTs. With this project, we aim to
provide a framework for handling geospatial data for AHIMTs and the
necessary tools for managing said framework.

To that end, we propose the following solution:

- Standardized event geodatabase (EGDB) schema.
  - \[Future\] PostGIS schema matching EGDB
- Pre-built web-apps, map layouts, and analysis tools that match schema.
- Tools to allow adapting framework to mission requirements with minimal
  training.
- Standard operating procedures (SOP) that defines operational
  procedures for handling geospatial data and associated products.

The above will allow teams to quickly establish methods for capturing,
analyzing, and visualizing data while providing the flexibility required
to adapt to changing situations.

## Components

### Event Geodatabase (EGDB)

- Pre-defined schema extended from National Wildland Coordinating Group
  ([NWCG](https://www.nwcg.gov/committees/geospatial-subcommittee/)).
- Tools for creating EGDB on ESRI platforms ([ArcGIS
  Pro](https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcgis/products/arcgis-pro/overview)
  and [ArcGIS Online
  (AGOL)](https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcgis/products/arcgis-online/overview)).
- Tools for managing domains to facilitate unknown assignment
  requirements.

### Web Application

- Provide for Incident monitoring.
- Create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) event data.
- Print format-customizable maps.
- Permissions for query/approval based on IMT roles (GISS, SITL, IC,
  etc.).
- Input features based on hand-held data collection (ESRI Field Maps).
- Functional across common hardware and browsers.
- Offline functionality with source feature service synchronization of
  edits.

### Customizable ArcGIS Pro Templates and Map Layouts

- ArcGIS Pro template containing:
  - EGDB
  - Custom toolbox
  - Customizable map layouts
- Map layouts
  - Customizable for organizational use.
  - Customizable to map/product requirements.
  - Dynamic text for rapid updating of map info.

### Analysis Tools

Includes custom Python tools to accomplish start up, joining, and
closing-out an incident. Additional tools can be added by users for
custom needs.

## Current Status

All code in the this repository is a work in progress. Use at your own
risk and please feel free to `contribute`.

- Event GDB: [event_gdb/README.md](event_gdb/README.md)
- Webapps: [webapp/README.md](webapp/README.md)

## Changelog

### 2022-12-22

- Migrate to nbdev for improved documentation

### 2022-08-31

- Add event GDB readme: [event_gdb/README.md](event_gdb/README.md)
- Add webapp readme: [webapp/README.md](webapp/README.md)

### 2022-08-11

- Alpha version of event GDB ready
- Still in conversations with ESRI on how to best adapt the
  domains/contingent values of feature category after EGDB has been
  pushed to AGOL
- Basic webapp running
- SOP stub created
- Some layout management tools completed
